# [Canon Space

- Thousands of years in the future, humanity has spread across a huge span of the galaxy and no longer has a clear idea of its own origins. 
- the [[Web]], the spidery network that links the far-flung worlds of [[Canon Space]]. 
- quabbling feudal [[houses]] who rest uneasily beneath the Imperial yoke and endlessly plot to advance themselves.
- For four thousand years, the [[Guardships]] ruled [[Canon Space]] with an iron fist.
- The system is effectively immortal, but in maintaining itself it necessarily must hold the culture it protects in stasis.  Technological progress has been halted lest anyone acquire Guardship-equivalent technology.  Cities on a hundred planets are constructed from the exact same prefabricated habitats.  Power is concentrated in a quasi-feudal commercial nobility so that the only ones with any power have too much to lose to dare crossing the Guardships.
- Now, millennia later, aliens are the majority, with much of the rest made up of [[Artifacts]] that by law aren’t considered human either. 
- The Brobdingnagian Guardships have enforced Canon Law over a realm spanning millions of stars for thirty-seven centuries. They make no pretense of fairness or justice; what Canon stands for is stability and human (within certain limits) supremacy. Aliens and artificial persons who will accept second-class status are permitted to serve their betters. Aliens and artificial persons who object are permitted to die in a holocaust of nuclear fire.
- [[Canon]] includes millions of stars and many species. 
- Human history disappears into fog about six thousand years in the past (still long after humans spread to the stars), but there are hints of alien histories that stretch back billions of years. 
-  humans are just the latest imperial power (having displaced the Go thousands of years ago). Human power won’t last forever. Indeed, much of this book is driven by Canon’s slow realization that humans are now a minority, and the aliens and artificial persons are the majority. Canon’s survival may depend on how effectively they can recruit members of their former underclass into the elite. 
-  There are some significant differences between Canon and Rome, beginning with the fact that, while the Guardships may seem to be playing the role of the Praetorian Guard, there isn’t an emperor. In fact, we are told little about how [[government]] works (aside from the importance of staying below the Guardship radar). There are bureaucrats, some provinces have presidents, but on the whole, government is not part of the story.
- They have managed to create an impressively stable empire, one just beginning to show cracks, but stability seems to be its main virtue. For most of the inhabitants, it’s an unpleasant place to live. 
-  humanity has established "[[Canon Space]]," a sort of loose interstellar empire arrayed along the [[Web]],
-   [[Canon]] is defended and sometimes expanded by the Guardships, a fleet of gigantic and almost indestructible warships which roam the [[Web]] more or less autonomously, keeping the peace and preventing the various quasi-feudal [[Houses]] of the Canon empire from getting too powerful. Numerous attempts to overthrow the Guardships have been made over several milennia, but none have succeeded.

Story is about the very isolated human civilization (so called Canon space) divided into myriad of colonized planets and systems linked through the inter dimensional space lanes and left to function on its own as long no power on any of the systems gains the upper hand and affects the balance (status quo).




[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Web]: web.md "Web"
[Canon Space]: canon-space.md "[Canon Space"
[Houses]: houses.md "Houses"
[Guardships]: guardships.md "Guardships"
[Artifacts]: artifacts.md "Artifacts"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"