# Outside

- dark [[Presence]] believes it has found a way to wrest the Web from the invincible.
- But now the [[House Tregesser]] believes they have an edge; a force from outside [[Canon Space]] offers them the resources to throw off [[Guardship]] rule. 
- the unknown forces from [[outside]] Canon Space that promise more death and destruction.
- Slowly the aliens outside Canon space are catching up to the Guardships’ technology levels. 
- There are things between the stars that are far worse than the Guardships and they have their optical units fixed on Canon space.

One of the galaxy Houses wants to capture a Guardship for their own ends. They ally themselves with the [[Outsiders]], a vast empire of methane breather aliens who wants to enter the system/galaxy protected by the Guardships. Oh yes, the [[Guardships]]' crew are only humans.

Outsiders worship a god named The Destroyer. 
The Guardships threatened to doom the truths of the Shadowed Path.
Death did not matter. Death was but a destination. The Shadowed Path led away in ten thousand directions but always ended in the same place, the maw of the Destroyer.

Simon Tregesser's methane breathing ally set a thought vibrating along the Web. 

These aliens are "methane breathers" (you can't breathe methane, for crying out loud!) which are some kind of huge, weird, Lovecraftian colonial organisms, armed with telepathy that uses the Web to communicate. Their technology is second only to the Guardships' stuff, and in fact the Guardships have only one hardware advantage, guns called Hellspinners which are considered pretty impressive. 

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Presence]: presence.md "Presence"
[House Tregesser]: house-tregesser.md "House Tregesser"
[Canon Space]: canon-space.md "[Canon Space"
[Guardship]: guardship.md "Guardship"
[outside]: outside.md "Outside"
[Guardships]: guardships.md "Guardships"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"