# Plot


In one [[plot]] line, we get conspiring Commercial Houses trying to rid themselves of their meddling “protectors,” and when one head of a house fails in his plot and dies, we just replace him and rinse and repeat the plot. (And to complicate things, the guy’s clone is still around causing trouble and confusing things.)

In another [[plot]], we get ancient, genetically modified aliens striving to avenge an ancient defeat - or are they? Another plot has us examining the moral ambiguity as to whether it is right for a fleet of human Guardships to be the “overlords” of an interstellar empire which has morphed into a predominantly alien one.

The next has [[Guardships]] losing their “minds” - for a lack of another expression - and exhibiting strange behavior.

One has the immortal crew of the Guardships questioning why they even continue to exist when all they knew is gone.

There is even a galaxy spanning war as disgruntled Canon inhabitants call in the aid of barbaric "[[Outsiders]]" from beyond the empire to smash the status quo.

So basically a summary of the [[plot]] is to figure out how to beat the enemy's supposed invincibility and supremacy.
One of the galaxy Houses wants to capture a Guardship for their own ends. They ally themselves with the [[Outsiders]], a vast empire of methane breather aliens who wants to enter the system/galaxy protected by the Guardships. Oh yes, the [[Guardships]]' crew are only humans.

When one of the mightiest [[Houses]] decides to execute plan hundreds of years in making to control the Canon [by conspiring with aliens and mysterious non-Canon-space forces] Guardships get automatically activated and what starts as dangerous xenos planet-wide hunt soon escalates into years long conflict that will bring the Canon space to the very brink of extinction.


- [[Enherrenraat]] affair - often mentioned by various characters but never quite explained.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[plot]: plot.md "Plot"
[Guardships]: guardships.md "Guardships"
[Houses]: houses.md "Houses"
[Enherrenraat]: enherrenraat.md "Enherrenraat"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"