# Soldiers

- For guardship soldiers life is a non-stop combat operations interchanged with decades (or even centuries) of cryogenic sleep.

- Each [[Guardship]] has an artificial intelligence at its core managing the automated systems, they are commanded by human crews.  When not needed, humans are stored in suspended animation.  When they are killed, they are recreated from vats using brain scans.  
- This means that even the youngest soldiers were “born” thousands of years ago at the dawn of the Canon era.  Humans who distinguish themselves are “[[Deified]]” through personality uploading and serve as a sort of Senate to advise the two [[Dictats]] (read: Consuls) who command the ship in a manner reminiscent of the Roman Republic.
- Another point of difference is [[Guardship]] [[soldiers]] are functionally immortal; they survive as long as their Guardship does. (Canon seems not to have invented off-site backups). When human soldiers die, they are reborn as clones with transferred memories. Officers who are especially good at their jobs will be preserved as deified artificial intelligences. Experience and skills are not lost due to age and mishaps, The downside is that [[Guardships]] have had time to become a lot stranger than any eccentric human could ever hope to become. 
- Cook garrisons these ships with human beings, who never die but are kept in status until needed, and if they perish, their dna and memories are stored in the ship’s database to allow them to be regrown with their abilities intact.
- The crew inside is composed of [[Deified]] (soldiers or officers who are immortalized and become like electronic spirits) and people of flesh and bones who are also, in a way, immortal.
- So they just replicate that specific Guardship and the crew is cloned. Even when operational, if one of the living soldiers die, they just clone them, with updated memories and techniques.
This keeps squad cohesion and trust between members (something fundamental in the military) always consistent.

- Are called the [[WarCrew]].

- [[Hall of the Watchers]]


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Guardship]: guardship.md "Guardship"
[Deified]: deified.md "Deified"
[Dictats]: dictats.md "Dictats"
[soldiers]: soldiers.md "Soldiers"
[Guardships]: guardships.md "Guardships"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"